# Covid-19-Prediction

Machine learning and natural language processing use big data-based models for pattern recognition, explanation, and prediction. NLP has gained much interest in recent years, mostly in the field of text analytics, Classification is one of the major task in text mining and can be performed using different algorithms [6]. Kumar et al. [7] performed a SWOT analysis of various supervised and unsupervised text classification algorithms for mining the unstructured data. The various applications of text classification are sentiment analysis, fraud detection, and spam detection etc. Opinion mining is majorly being used for elections, advertisement, business etc. Verma et al. [8] analysed Sentiments of Indian government projects with the help of the lexicon-based dictionary. The machine learning has changed the perspective of diagnosis by giving great results to diseases like diabetes and epilepsy. Chakraborti et al. [9] detected epilepsy using machine learning approaches, electroencephalogram (EEG) signals are used for detecting normal and epileptic conditions using artificial neural networks (ANN). Sarwar et al. [10] diagnosis diabetes using machine learning and ensemble learning techniques result indicated that ensemble technique assured accuracy of 98.60%. These purposes can be beneficial to diagnose and predict COVID-19. Firm and exact diagnosis of COVID-19 can save millions of lives and can produce a massive amount of data on which a machine learning (ML) models can be trained. ML may provide useful input in this regard, in particular in making diagnoses based on clinical text, radiography Images etc. According to Bullock et al. [11], Machine learning and deep learning can replace humans by giving an accurate diagnosis. The perfect diagnosis can save radiologists’ time and can be cost-effective than standard tests for COVID-19. X-rays and computed tomography (CT) scans can be used for training the machine learning model. Several initiatives are underway in this regard. Wang and Wong [12] developed COVID-Net, which is a deep convolutional neural network, which can diagnose COVID-19 from chest radiography images. Once the COVID-19 is detected in a person, the question is whether and how intensively that person will be affected. Not all COVID-19 positive patients will need rigorous attention. Being able to prognosis who will be affected more severely can help in directing assistance and planning medical resource allocation and utilization. Yan et al. [13] used machine learning to develop a prognostic prediction algorithm to predict the mortality risk of a person that has been infected, using data from (only) 29 patients at Tongji Hospital in Wuhan, China. Jiang et al. [14] proposed a machine learning model that can predict a person affected with COVID-19 and has the possibility to develop acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The proposed model resulted in 80% of accuracy. The samples of 53 patients were used for training their model and are restricted to two Chinese hospitals. ML can be used to diagnose COVID-19 which needs a lot of research effort but is not yet widely operational. Since less work is being done on diagnosis and predicting using text, we used machine learning and ensemble learning models to classify the clinical reports into four categories of viruses.
